# Compostable Disintegration Analysis

## Project Background

The Compost Research & Education Foundation (CREF) researches the disintegration of compostable foodware and packaging to find correlations between different composting methodologies and the rate of disintegration. Through the Compostable Field Testing Program, facilities submit their composting results and CREF analyzes the data to find best composting practices. Facilities submit data in varying formats, so the DSI will help CREF create a database well-suited to the kinds of statistical analysis performed on composting data. CREF will then standardize their data collection process so participating facilities adhere to best practices in both running experiments and in data collection. In the future, CREF will make the data and analysis from their partner facilities available on a public dashboard.

## Project Goals

The DSI will be extending a data pipeline to format data from new experiments into a consistent format and creating visualizations showing disintegration rates for different materials and composting methodology. We will also create a process for importing new trial data that CREF's partner facilities will use in future trials, and start building the infrastructure for a public-facing dashboard of data from composting trials.

## Usage

### Docker

### Docker & Make

We use `docker` and `make` to run our code. There are three built-in `make` commands:

* `make build-only`: This will build the image only. It is useful for testing and making changes to the Dockerfile.
* `make run-notebooks`: This will run a jupyter server which also mounts the current directory into `\program`.
* `make run-interactive`: This will create a container (with the current directory mounted as `\program`) and loads an interactive session. 

The file `Makefile` contains information about about the specific commands that are run using when calling each `make` statement.

### Developing inside a container with VS Code

If you prefer to develop inside a container with VS Code then do the following steps. Note that this works with both regular scripts as well as jupyter notebooks.

1. Open the repository in VS Code
2. At the bottom right a window may appear that says `Folder contains a Dev Container configuration file...`. If it does, select, `Reopen in Container` and you are done. Otherwise proceed to next step. 
3. Click the blue or green rectangle in the bottom left of VS code (should say something like `><` or `>< WSL`). Options should appear in the top center of your screen. Select `Reopen in Container`.




## Repository Structure

### scripts
Project python code

### notebooks
Contains short, clean notebooks to demonstrate analysis.

### data

Contains details of acquiring all raw data used in repository. If data is small (<50MB) then it is okay to save it to the repo, making sure to clearly document how to the data is obtained.

If the data is larger than 50MB than you should not add it to the repo and instead document how to get the data in the README.md file in the data directory. 

This [README.md file](/data/README.md) should be kept up to date.

### output
Should contain work product generated by the analysis. Keep in mind that results should (generally) be excluded from the git repository.

### contributors
Kristof Turan: kristofturan@uchicago.edu